_software/github.md, before:

---
title: GitHub Guidelines
description: GitHub
name: github
permalink: /github/
layout: default
---

{% include layouts/title.md %}

##### GitHub Organization

{% include navigation/findlink.md name='github' tag='The EIC GitHub Organization' %} is available for the whole EICUG. For membership, please send your GitHub username to [eicug-computing-infrastructure-support@eicug.org](mailto:eicug-computing-infrastructure-support@eicug.org?subject=GitHub%20Account)


##### GitHub Guidelines

We encourage you to share your software and documentation on {% include navigation/findlink.md name='github' tag='https://github.com/eic' %}. Please follow our guidelines in doing so: 

* Please use a unique name for your repository so that we can easily identify projects. We will, e.g., have various Geant4 related projects and each of these projects should have a name that is distinguishable from the others (and not Geant4). 
* Please {% include navigation/findlink.md name='github_adding_topics' tag='add at least one topic to your repository' %}.
* Please give a clear description of your repository, e.g., ”Mary Johnson (Lab)’s DVCS MC” or “William's Smith (University) DIS analysis”.

Commit message:

Add references and a tutorial to the GitHub information

_software/github.md, after:

---
title: GitHub
description: GitHub
name: github
permalink: /github/
layout: default
---

{% include layouts/title.md %}

* [Learning Git](#learning)
* [GitHub Organization](#organization)
* [GitHub Guidelines](#guidelines)

--- 

##### Learning Git {#learning}

Test {% include navigation/findlink.md name='git' tag='Git' %} is a
distributed version-control system for tracking changes in source
code. It has been designed to handle everything from small to very
large projects with speed and efficiency and is widely used in science
and industry. Git is open source and avavailable for free.

For a tutorial on using Git in research, we recommend the Software
Carpentry lesson on {% include navigation/findlink.md
name='git-lesson' tag='Version Control with Git' %}. 

For further details on Git, we refer to the {% include
navigation/findlink.md name='git-book' tag='Pro Git book' %} that is
available for free on the Git website.

--- 

##### GitHub Organization {#organization}

The {% include navigation/findlink.md name='github' tag='EIC GitHub Organization' %} is available for the whole EICUG. For membership, please send your GitHub username to [eicug-computing-infrastructure-support@eicug.org](mailto:eicug-computing-infrastructure-support@eicug.org?subject=GitHub%20Account)

##### GitHub Guidelines {#guidelines}

We encourage you to share your software and documentation on {% include navigation/findlink.md name='github' tag='https://github.com/eic' %}. Please follow our guidelines in doing so: 

* Please use a unique name for your repository so that we can easily identify projects. We will, e.g., have various Geant4 related projects and each of these projects should have a name that is distinguishable from the others (and not Geant4). 
* Please {% include navigation/findlink.md name='github_adding_topics' tag='add at least one topic to your repository' %}.
* Please give a clear description of your repository, e.g., ”Mary Johnson (Lab)’s DVCS MC” or “William's Smith (University) DIS analysis”.
