_computing/petrel.md, before:

---
title: Petrel/Globus
description: Worldwide access through Petrel/Globus
name: petrel
layout: default
level: 0
---

{% include layouts/title.md %}

# Worldwide access through Petrel/Globus

Petrel is a Globus-enabled data service for researchers that provides a 
simple and intuitive interface for self-managed project-based data 
sharing. Our Petrel allocation is 100TB (more can be added if needed). 
The existing pre-grenerated Monte-Carlo data will be made available 
soon. You can find more info on Petrel 
[here](https://petrel.alcf.anl.gov/).

​
Because of the Globus back-end it is easy to move, share and discover 
data via a single interface, regardless if you are working with on a HPC 
facility, computer farm or your local machine. All major laboratories 
and supercomputing facilities, as well as most universities support 
Globus. This allows you to use your existing laboratory (ANL, BNL, JLab, 
LBNL, etc.) or even university credentials to access the files. To 
access the storage space, [log in to globus.org](https://globus.org) 
with your existing laboratory or university credentials and access the 
`petrel#eic` endpoint. It's as easy as that!

​
If you encounter any issues, or if you want write-access to the storage 
space, you can contact [Sylvester](mailto:sjoosten@anl.gov) or 
[Markus](mailto:mdiefent@jlab.org).
​

Commit message:

Updated Petrel section and added Petrel to newsletter

_computing/petrel.md, after:

---
title: Petrel/Globus
description: Worldwide data storage and access through Petrel/Globus
name: petrel
layout: default
level: 0
---

{% include layouts/title.md %}

# Worldwide data storage and access through Petrel/Globus

We offer the community access to a large data storage allocation on Petrel
to address the increasing need for an easy-to-access high-performance
storage solution for the Yellow Report Initiative.
Petrel is a Globus-enabled data service for researchers that provides a 
simple and intuitive interface for self-managed project-based data 
sharing. Our Petrel allocation is 100TB (more can be added if needed). 
The existing pre-grenerated Monte-Carlo data from BNL (13TB and growing)
are mirrored in the `BNL-gpfs02-data` directory, and available JLab data
will be added soon as well.  You can find more info on Petrel 
[here](https://petrel.alcf.anl.gov/).
Petrel is supported and maintained by ALCF.

​
Because of the Globus back-end it is easy to move, share and discover 
data via a single interface, regardless if you are working with on a HPC 
facility, computer farm or your local machine. All major laboratories 
and supercomputing facilities, as well as most universities support 
Globus. This allows you to use your existing laboratory (ANL, BNL, JLab, 
LBNL, etc.) or even university credentials to access the files. To 
access the storage space, [log in to globus.org](https://globus.org) 
with your existing laboratory or university credentials and access the 
`petrel#eic` endpoint. It's as easy as that!

​
Write-access is available to anyone in the EIC Globus Group.
If you want write-access to the storage space, 
or if you encounter any issues, 
you can contact [Sylvester](mailto:sjoosten@anl.gov) or 
[Markus](mailto:mdiefent@jlab.org).
​
